>> Maximiliano Firtman: What is a PWA?
What's a Progressive Web App?
Does anyone know or can define?
>> Speaker 2: A web app that you
don't need to download from, or
that you don't need to go
through the App Store?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: They is a PWA,
right?
So what is it?
So it's an app that doesn't need
to be in the App Store, okay?
What else?
Let's see if we can.
>> Speaker 3: A combination of
service workers, manifest JSON and
some other stuff.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
you like technical definitions, so
it's a combination of service workers and
manifest and okay, we'll see, we'll see.
I'm not saying yes or no yet, I'm just
trying to pick some, pick your brain,
to see why you're here also.
So you have some idea of
what we're talking about.
>> Speaker 4: Web app that's designed
to be mobile first, and as simple and
small, that will build
features progressively.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so
you you took the P, the P in PWA,
that's if you take Progressive.
There are a couple of things there.
The first definition that's coming
from the chat mentioned mobile, right?
So that's kind of the first focus
of PWA were actually mobile.
Well, I will try to define this and
of course,
my definition has changed over the years.
My current definition is that,
it's a design pattern.
So again, it's just a design pattern to
use different APIs and specs from the web
platform to create installable offline
capable standalone apps for mobile and
desktop devices.
That's my definition,
because we don't have a definition.
So because it's kind of
a marketing name that started for
selling things to businesses.
I mean, we need to sell something new.
So we go to the CEO or the CTO and
say, hey, we have to do a web app at
PWA because we already have a website,
we need to create a PWA.
But it's just a design
pattern around APIs.
It's like a mobile first or
it's like responsive web design,
it's not really an API.
It's just a design pattern recipe,
a collection of ideas and
techniques that will make a web app
installable and offline capable.
We will see that with time.
The offline capability
requirement became more flexible.
We are kind of focusing these days and
maybe for the future,
on installability and
the standalone, so being an app.
The offline capabilities becoming
kind of optional, to be honest, okay?
And it's ideal, so this platform is ideal
for all those apps out there that the only
thing that the app is doing is
consuming web content or web services.
So they are downloading
the JSON part in the JSON,
rendering the JSON on the screen,
that's all.
So we don't need Swift, Kotlin,
native code to do that.
We don't integrate, we're not
listening for Bluetooth, Beacons,
while we are using now a hardware
connected through infrared, wherever.
So we are not doing that,
it's just rendering content.
And that means that, when you go native,
when you have these apps,
you're actually building your own browser,
it's kind of that.
And we already have a browser that
it's ideal for rendering web content.
Rendering rich text,
rich information, and that's the web.
So that's why I encourage you
to check all the apps you have.
I'm not saying that every
app should be a PWA, but
there are a lot of apps that should be
a PWA and it should be pretty good.
So again, PWA is not an API,
it's not a framework, it's not a library.
It's just a term to
describe a design pattern.
And even let's say for
example Apple doesn't use the term at all.
There were just one or
two mentions in Apple's history.
Lawyers, they mentioned that as a way to
describe that they have an alternative to
the App Store.
And I mean, in a legal document, they
say we have PWAs, but the WebKit team,
at WWDC, the Apple annual event,
they never use the term PWA.
They use web apps or home screen
web apps or installable web apps.
And I'm seeing in the past few months
that also Google and Microsoft,
so Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge.
I'm seeing a shift also
into using less PWA and
more web apps or installable web apps.
But again, it's just the same,
we are just talking about the same idea,
it's just a name issue, okay?